Announcing fastai integration (#286)
huggingface/blog: fastai.md

            <code>espejelomar</code>
            <span class="fullname">Omar Espejel</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Making neural nets uncool again... and sharing them

Few have done as much as the [fastai](https://www.fast.ai/) ecosystem to make Deep Learning accessible. Our mission at Hugging Face is to democratize good Machine Learning. Let's make exclusivity in access to Machine Learning, including [pre-trained models](https://huggingface.co/models), a thing of the past and let's push this amazing field even further.

fastai is an [open-source Deep Learning library](https://github.com/fastai/fastai) that leverages PyTorch and Python to provide high-level components. It quickly delivers state-of-the-art output on text, vision, and tabular data. However, fastai is more than just a library; it's an entire ecosystem of notable contributors. As some examples, check out their [book](https://github.com/fastai/fastbook), [documentation](https://docs.fast.ai/), and [courses](https://course.fast.ai/). Join the fastai [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/YKrxeNn) and [forums](https://forums.fast.ai/). It is a guarantee that you will learn by engaging with their community.

> Because of all this, and more (the writer of this post started his journey thanks to the fastai course), we are proud to announce that Fastai practitioners can now share and upload models to Hugging Face Hub with a single line of Python.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because of all this, and more (the writer of this post started his journey thanks to the fastai course), we are proud to announce that fastai practitioners can now share and upload models to Hugging Face Hub with a single line of Python.
```

>  👉 In this post, we will quickly introduce the integration between Fastai and Hub. Check out [this Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/gist/omarespejel/9ba054ce74c7a4d4408085b611124bdf) for a hands-on introduction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 👉 In this post, we will quickly introduce the integration between fastai and Hub. Check out [this Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/gist/omarespejel/9ba054ce74c7a4d4408085b611124bdf) for a hands-on introduction.
```

*We want to thank the fastai community, notably Jeremy Howard, for their feedback 🤗. This blog is heavily inspired by the [Hugging Face Hub section](https://docs.fast.ai/huggingface.html) in the fastai docs.

## Why share to the Hub?

The Hub is a central platform where anyone can share and explore models, datasets, and ML demos. It aims to build the most extensive collection of Open Source models, datasets, and demos.

Sharing on the Hub could amplify the impact of a fastai model by making it available for others to download and explore. Also, fastai models take great advantage of transfer learning; load someone else's model as the basis for your task.

Anyone can access all the fastai models in the Hub by filtering the [huggingface.co/models](https://huggingface.co/models?library=fastai&sort=downloads) webpage by the fastai library, as in the image below.

> To know more about the Hub, refer to this introduction.

Reviewer: Should this introduction be a link to somewhere?

![Fastai Models in the Hub](assets/64_fastai/hf_hub_fastai.png)

## Installation

Install `huggingface_hub`. Additionally, the integration functions require the following packages:

- toml,
- fastai>=2.4,
- fastcore>=1.3.27

You can install these packages manually or specify ["fastai"] when installing `huggingface_hub`, and your environment will be ready:

```bash
pip install huggingface_hub["fastai"]
```

Note: As of May 5, 2022, there has not been a release that includes the fastai+hub features so that you can install from main:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub#egg=huggingface-hub["fastai"]
```
To share models in the Hub, you will need to have a user. Create it on the [Hugging Face website](https://huggingface.co/).

## Sharing and finding Learners to the Hub

There are three options to login to the Hugging Face Hub; your token will be available in your Account Settings:
1. Type `huggingface-cli login` in your terminal and enter your token.

2. If in a python notebook, you can use `notebook_login`.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

from huggingface_hub import notebook_login
notebook_login()
```

3. Use the `token` argument of the `push_to_hub_fastai` function.

> Input `push_to_hub_fastai` (refer to the [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.push_to_hub_fastai)) with the Learner you want to upload and the repository id for the Hub in the format of "namespace/repo_name". The namespace can be an individual account or an organization you have write access to (for example, 'fastai/stanza-de'). For more details, refer to the [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.push_to_hub_fastai).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Input `push_to_hub_fastai` (refer to the [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.push_to_hub_fastai)) with the `Learner` you want to upload and the repository id for the Hub in the format of "namespace/repo_name". The namespace can be an individual account or an organization you have write access to (for example, 'fastai/stanza-de'). For more details, refer to the [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.push_to_hub_fastai).
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```py
```

---
title: 'Welcome fastai to the Hugging Face Hub'
thumbnail: /blog/assets/64_fastai/fastai_hf_blog.png
---

<h1><>
    Welcome fastai to the Hugging Face Hub
</h1>

<div class="blog-metadata">
    <small>Published May 5, 2022.</small>
    <a target="_blank" class="btn no-underline text-sm mb-5 font-sans" href="https://github.com/huggingface/blog/blob/main/fastai.md">
        Update on GitHub
    </a>
</div>

<div class="author-card">
    <a href="/espejelomar"> 
        <img class="avatar avatar-user" src="https://bafybeidj6oxo7zm5pejnc2iezy24npw4qbt2jgpo4n6igt7oykc7rbvcxi.ipfs.dweb.link/omar_picture.png" title="Gravatar">
        <div class="bfc">
            <code>espejelomar</code>
            <span class="fullname">Omar Espejel</span>
        </div>
    </a>
</div>

## Making neural nets uncool again... and sharing them

> Few have done as much as the [fastai](https://www.fast.ai/) ecosystem to make Deep Learning accessible. Our mission at Hugging Face is to democratize good Machine Learning. Let's make exclusivity in access to Machine Learning, including [pre-trained models](https://huggingface.co/models), a thing of the past and let's push this amazing field even further.

Reviewer 2: nit: fast.ai since you're talking about the community/ecosystem

```suggestion
Few have done as much as the [fast.ai](https://www.fast.ai/) ecosystem to make Deep Learning accessible. Our mission at Hugging Face is to democratize good Machine Learning. Let's make exclusivity in access to Machine Learning, including [pre-trained models](https://huggingface.co/models), a thing of the past and let's push this amazing field even further.
```

> fastai is an [open-source Deep Learning library](https://github.com/fastai/fastai) that leverages PyTorch and Python to provide high-level components. It quickly delivers state-of-the-art output on text, vision, and tabular data. However, fastai is more than just a library; it is maintained by [fast.ai](https://www.fast.ai/), the company, and has grown into an entire ecosystem of notable contributors. As some examples, check out fast.ai's [book](https://github.com/fastai/fastbook) and [courses](https://course.fast.ai/). Join the fast.ai [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/YKrxeNn) and [forums](https://forums.fast.ai/). It is a guarantee that you will learn by engaging with their community.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fastai is an [open-source Deep Learning library](https://github.com/fastai/fastai) that leverages PyTorch and Python to provide high-level components to train fast and accurate neural networks with state-of-the-art output on text, vision, and tabular data. However, fastai is more than just a library; it has grown into a thriving ecosystem of open source contributors and people learning about neural networks. As some examples, check out their [book](https://github.com/fastai/fastbook) and [courses](https://course.fast.ai/). Join the fast.ai [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/YKrxeNn) and [forums](https://forums.fast.ai/). It is a guarantee that you will learn by being part of their community!
```

Because of all this, and more (the writer of this post started his journey thanks to the fast.ai course), we are proud to announce that fastai practitioners can now share and upload models to Hugging Face Hub with a single line of Python.

>  👉 In this post, we will quickly introduce the integration between fastai and Hub. Check out [this Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/gist/omarespejel/9ba054ce74c7a4d4408085b611124bdf) for a hands-on introduction.

Reviewer 2: You can add the notebook to https://github.com/huggingface/blog/tree/main/notebooks

> Because of all this, and more (the writer of this post started his journey thanks to the fast.ai course), we are proud to announce that fastai practitioners can now share and upload models to Hugging Face Hub with a single line of Python.
> 
>  👉 In this post, we will quickly introduce the integration between fastai and Hub. Check out [this Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/gist/omarespejel/9ba054ce74c7a4d4408085b611124bdf) for a hands-on introduction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Because of all this, and more (the writer of this post started his journey thanks to the fast.ai course), we are proud to announce that fastai practitioners can now share and upload models to Hugging Face Hub with a single line of Python.

 👉 In this post, we will introduce the integration between fastai and the Hub. Check out [this Google Colab notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/gist/omarespejel/9ba054ce74c7a4d4408085b611124bdf) for a hands-on introduction.
```

> *We want to thank the fast.ai community, notably Jeremy Howard, for their feedback 🤗. This blog is heavily inspired by the [Hugging Face Hub section](https://docs.fast.ai/huggingface.html) in the fastai docs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* We want to thank the fast.ai community, notably Jeremy Howard, for their feedback 🤗. This blog is heavily inspired by the [Hugging Face Hub section](https://docs.fast.ai/huggingface.html) in the fastai docs.
```

## Why share to the Hub?

> The Hub is a central platform where anyone can share and explore models, datasets, and ML demos. It aims to build the most extensive collection of Open Source models, datasets, and demos.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Hub is a central platform where anyone can share and explore models, datasets, and ML demos. It has the most extensive collection of Open Source models, datasets, and demos.
```

> Sharing on the Hub could amplify the impact of a fastai model by making it available for others to download and explore. Also, fastai models take great advantage of transfer learning; load someone else's model as the basis for your task.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sharing on the Hub amplifies the impact of your fastai models by making them available for others to download and explore. You can also use transfer learning with fastai models; load someone else's model as the basis for your task.
```

> Anyone can access all the fastai models in the Hub by filtering the [huggingface.co/models](https://huggingface.co/models?library=fastai&sort=downloads) webpage by the fastai library, as in the image below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Anyone can access all the fastai models in the Hub by filtering the [hf.co/models](https://huggingface.co/models?library=fastai&sort=downloads) webpage by the fastai library, as in the image below.
```

> To know more about the Hub, refer to [this introduction](https://github.com/huggingface/education-toolkit/blob/main/01_huggingface-hub-tour.md).

Reviewer 2: I would add some of the benefits from https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/adding-a-library#integrate-your-library-with-the-hub

* Free model hosting
* Built-in file versioning, even for large files
* Model cards

Author: Great! I wrote:
```
In addition to free model hosting and exposure to the broader community, the Hub has built-in [version control based on git and git-lfs](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_sharing#repository-features) (for large files) and [model cards](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/model-repos#what-are-model-cards-and-why-are-they-useful) for discoverability and reproducibility. For more information on navigating the Hub, see [this introduction](https://github.com/huggingface/education-toolkit/blob/main/01_huggingface-hub-tour.md).
```

![Fastai Models in the Hub](assets/64_fastai/hf_hub_fastai.png)

## Installation

> Install `huggingface_hub`. Additionally, the integration functions require the following packages:
> 
> - toml,
> - fastai>=2.4,
> - fastcore>=1.3.27
> 
> You can install these packages manually or specify ["fastai"] when installing `huggingface_hub`, and your environment will be ready:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `huggingface_hub` library is a lightweight Python client with utility functions to interact with the Hugging Face Hub. In order to push fastai models to the Hub, you require to have some libraries pre-installed (fastai, fastcore, toml), but you can install them automatically by specifying ["fastai"] when installing `huggingface_hub`, and your environment will be ready:
```

```bash
pip install huggingface_hub["fastai"]
```

Note: As of May 5, 2022, there has not been a release that includes the fastai+hub features so that you can install from main:

```bash
pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub#egg=huggingface-hub["fastai"]
```
To share models in the Hub, you will need to have a user. Create it on the [Hugging Face website](https://huggingface.co/).

## Sharing a `Learner` to the Hub

*A [`Learner` is a fastai object](https://docs.fast.ai/learner.html#Learner) that bundles a model, data loaders, and a loss function. We will use the words `Learner` and Model interchangeably throughout this post.

> There are three options to login to the Hugging Face Hub; your token will be available in your Account Settings:

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention users that they need to create a write token in http://hf.co/settings/tokens before any of these steps

1. Type `huggingface-cli login` in your terminal and enter your token.

2. If in a python notebook, you can use `notebook_login`.

```py
from huggingface_hub import notebook_login
notebook_login()
```

3. Use the `token` argument of the `push_to_hub_fastai` function.

> Input `push_to_hub_fastai` (refer to the [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.push_to_hub_fastai)) with the `Learner` you want to upload and the repository id for the Hub in the format of "namespace/repo_name". The namespace can be an individual account or an organization you have write access to (for example, 'fastai/stanza-de'). For more details, refer to the [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.push_to_hub_fastai).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can input `push_to_hub_fastai` with the `Learner` you want to upload and the repository id for the Hub in the format of "namespace/repo_name". The namespace can be an individual account or an organization you have write access to (for example, 'fastai/stanza-de'). For more details, refer to the [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.push_to_hub_fastai).
```

```py

> from huggingface_hub import push_to_hub_fastai

Reviewer 2: As discussed internally, maybe let's add the code for the learner here and in the colab

push_to_hub_fastai(learner=learn, repo_id="espejelomar/cool_learner")
```

The `Learner` is now in the Hub in the repo named `espejelomar/cool_learner`.

When uploading a fastai `Learner` (or any other model) to the Hub, it is helpful to edit its model card (image below) so that others better understand your work (refer to the [Hugging Face documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/hub/model-repos#what-are-model-cards-and-why-are-they-useful)).

![Fastai Model Card](assets/64_fastai/hf_model_card.png)

## Loading a `Learner` from Hub

To load a model in the Hub with the id `ITESM/fastai_model`:

```py
from huggingface_hub import from_pretrained_fastai

> learner = from_pretrained_fastai("ITESM/fastai_model")

Reviewer 2: I think it might be nicer if you load the same model you pushed and then do an inference with the image classifier for example

```

The [Hub Client documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/huggingface_hub/main/en/package_reference/mixins#huggingface_hub.from_pretrained_fastai) includes addtional details on `from_pretrained_fastai`.

> ## What is next?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What's next?
```
